These figures were generated from Jupyter Notebook file chapter3_metadata(2).ipynb available at code subdirectory within Chapter 2 directory.

## Figure 9 & Figure 10
Overally, the availability of metadata information in the samplesis 72.8% and it was shown in figure 9. According to the results, the phenotypes for disease condition and organism are 100%, which are the most completely shared, followed by the tissue type which is 99.3%, age which is 89.1%, and sex which is 89.1%. The least complete metadata information is the mortality rate which is 32.7%, while the clinical severity is 48.9%. And it is shown in figure 10. 
In figure 2, out of the 17% of the papers, the assessment demonstrated that the data applied for analysis was shared most abundantly on the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) which is 40.21% and followed by theSequence Read Archive (SRA) which is 11.34%. Other repositories and webpages constituted 48.45%14. Further, 32.83% of the articles that shared raw data, also had a data availability statement mentioned in the manuscript.
## Figure 11 & 12
After assaying the overall availability of metadata accompanying raw omic data, the discrepancy between the completeness of metadata reported on original publications and metadata published on public repositories were checked. In figure 11-12, it can be seen that the aggregate metadata from the original publication is 71.1% complete across the nine clinical phenotypes. The overall completeness of metadata information from public repositories, on the other hand, is 48.6%. There are significant discrepancies between the completeness of metadata published on public repositories and original publications, with 22.5% of metadata information lost when original articles are uploaded to online repositories.
## Figure 13
According to the results, the overall availability of metadata is 72.8% (figure 9) while the completeness of metadata given across different clinical characteristics, however, varies greatly. The most complete metadata information is disease condition, organism, and tissue types, with almost 100% of the samples reported the above metadata, while the least complete metadata information is samples’ mortality rate, ethnicity, and disease severity. According to figure 13, it can be seen that all studies have shared some part of information about the samples’ metadata, indicating that the authors have some awareness toward sharing the samples’ metadata information. However, the findings suggest that there is insufficient data reported, as no studies publish complete metadata information with raw data in public repositories. (figure 12).The
metadata information in the samples is unevenly available, with ethnicity and nation information being the least typically reported metadata information. (figure 13). The lack of ethnicity and country metadata in the samples could stymie future population-specific omics research. 
