## Figure 1
Eight prominent biomedical journals were chosen and 12,603 publications from 2016 to 2021 were selected and retrieved from the PubMed Central open access corpus. Then, 10 articles were randomly selected from these 8 journals from each year of 2016 to 2021 and a subset of 480 articles was obtained. In figure 1, it is shown that data sharing practices across the manuscripts conducting primary analyses indicated that 17% of the biomedical research articles share raw data. Research papers conducting secondary analyses were not taken into consideration for raw data availability. 
## Figure 2 
In figure 2, out of the 17% of the papers, the assessment demonstrated that the data applied for analysis was shared most abundantly on the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) which is 40.21% and followed by theSequence Read Archive (SRA) which is 11.34%. Other repositories and webpages constituted 48.45%14. Further, 32.83% of the articles that shared raw data, also had a data availability statement mentioned in the manuscript.
## Figure 3
In order to elucidate the reasons for the differences in availability of data, and the influence of journals mandate on date sharing, the following tests were conducted among the 8 journals. The policies enforced across the journals were investigated and the results are shown in figure 3. Nature Genetics has the highest percentages of data sharing policy, and followed closely
 by Nature Biotechnology and Genome Biology. The journal Bioinformatics and BMC Bioinformatics had relatively the lowest percentages of data sharing policy. 
## Figure 4
Regarding the results of trend in data sharing from the year from 2016 to 2021 (figure 4), it can be clearly seen that there is an increase from year to year in data availability. 
In 2016, data sharing was quite moderate, which is only 22.5%, and one year later, the data increased to 32.5%. However, it decreased to 25% in 2018 and jumped to 7.5% one year later. Reasons needed to be discussed further. Looking at the figure 4, at the trend of 2020 and 2021, it can be predicted that the availability of data sharing will increase year by year. 
